
My Government's "Neighbourhood First" and your Government's "India First" policies have strengthened our bilateral cooperation in all sectors: PM
In the coming years, the projects under Indian assistance will bring even more benefits to the people of the Maldives: PM

Your Excellency,My friend President Ibrahim Solih,
Our distinguished Maldivian friends,
Colleagues,
नमस्कार।
It is always a pleasureto connect with you,President Solih.You and Maldivesare always in our hearts and minds.
I would like to congratulate you on the first Anniversary of your term, which was celebratedfew days back.It has been a landmark yearfor democracy and development in the Maldives.It has also been a significant yearfor India-Maldives relationship.
My Government's "Neighbourhood First"and your Government's"India First" policieshave strengthened our bilateral cooperation in all sectors.Implementation of our decisionshas promoteddevelopment of Maldive's economy,infrastructureand capacity building.
It is importantthat this progresshas been achieved in areas of Maldive's priorities and requirements.
Today,a "Made in India" Fast Interceptor Craftwas officially handed overto your Coast Guard. This advanced vessel has been constructed by L&T in my home state, Gujarat.  It will help enhance Maldive's maritime security,and promote your blue economy and tourism. I am happyto note thatthe patrol vesselhas been named "Kamyab", which means "SUCCESS" in Dhivehi, as well as in Hindi.



Excellency,
I recallthe importance your Governmentattaches to development of Addu.India is happy to partnerthrough High Impact Community Development projectsfor supporting livelihoodof the island's communities.
Friends,
One of the key aspects of close relations between our countriesis people-to-people contacts. Indian tourist figures in Maldiveshave more than doubled. India has moved from 5th to 2nd position.This week,three direct flightsfrom Delhi,Mumbai and Bengaluruhave also started.
RuPay Payment mechanism will further easethe travel of Indian to the Maldives.I am glad thatthis has been launchedthrough the Bank of Maldives.
Excellency,
Todaywe also dedicatedLED street lighting to the people of Male.  India is very happy to bring to them benefitsof these environment friendly lights.  They will also save 80% cost.



Excellency,we are also working on buildinga Cancer Hospitaland a Cricket Stadium in Hulhulmalé.
I am informed that work on the water and sanitation projectsin 34 islands and Roads and Reclamation work inAdduwill begin soon.
In the coming year,the projects under Indian assistancewill bring even more benefits to the people of the Maldives.
As a close friendand maritime neighbour,India is committed to continue partnering the Maldivesfor democracy and development.We will also enhanceour cooperation for peaceand Mutual security in the Indian Ocean region.
Excellency,
I look forward to meeting you in Delhi.I convey warm wishes to the friendly people of the Maldivesfor peaceand prosperity.
Thank you very much.
 


 






