
India and Mauritius are diverse and vibrant democracies, committed to working for the prosperity of our people, as well as for peace in our region and the world: PM
The Indian Ocean is a bridge between India and Mauritius: PM Modi

Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius, the Honourable Mr. Pravind Jugnauth Ji, Senior Ministers and dignitaries of Mauritius, distinguished guests, Friends, Namaskar! Bonjour! Good afternoon!
I would like to extend a very warm greetings to all our friends in Mauritius.
This interaction is a special occasion for our nations. This is a new chapter in our shared history, heritage and cooperation. Not long ago, Mauritius hosted the Indian Ocean Island Games and achieved glory in them.
Both our countries are celebrating ‘Durga Puja’ and will soon celebrate Deepawali. These developments make the inauguration of the first phase of the Metro project an even more joyous occasion. 
The Metro will provide clean, efficient and time-saving transport. It will contribute to economic activities and tourism.
The other project inaugurated today - state-of-the-art ENT Hospital - will contribute to quality healthcare. The Hospital has an energy efficient building and will offer paperless services.
Both these projects will serve the people of Mauritius. They are a symbol of India’s strong commitment to the development of Mauritius. 
Thousands of workers have worked hard, day and night, in the sun and in rain, for these projects. 
But unlike in the past centuries, we today work for the better future of our people.
I commend the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth who conceived modern infrastructure and services for Mauritius. I also sincerely thank him and the Government of Mauritius for their active cooperation, which has been the key to timely completion of these projects.
Friends,
We are proud that India has partnered Mauritius in these and other projects of direct public interest.
Last year, a joint project provided e-tablets to young children.
The new Supreme Court building and one thousand social housing units are coming up rapidly.
I am happy to announce that India will support the construction of a renal unit as well as medi-clinics and Area Health Centres, suggested by Prime Minister Jugnauth.



Friends,
Both India and Mauritius are diverse and vibrant democracies, committed to working for the prosperity of our people, as well as for peace in our region and the world.
Our mutual regard for each other finds expression in a number of ways.
This year, Prime Minister Jugnauth graced the largest ever Pravasi Bhartiya Divas as the Chief Guest, and also the inauguration of the second term of my government.
Our President was invited as the Chief Guest on the 50th anniversary celebration of the independence of Mauritius. In the one hundred fiftieth year of Mahatma Gandhi, Mauritius pays homage to his abiding memory, and remembers its special bond with him.
Friends,
The Indian Ocean is a bridge between India and Mauritius. Ocean economy holds great promise for our people.
The vision of SAGAR – “Security and Growth for All in the Region” - will guide us to work closely together on all aspects of maritime economy, security and disaster risk reduction.
I would like to thank the Government of Mauritius for joining the Coalition for Disaster resilient Infrastructure as a founding member.
Excellency,
In a month’s time, Aapravasi Diwas will be celebrated at the World Heritage Site of Aapravasi Ghat. It will mark the successful struggle of our brave ancestors.
That struggle had borne rich fruits in the form of great success of Mauritius in this Century.
We salute the remarkable spirit of the people of Mauritius.
Vive l'amitié antre l'Inde à Maurice. भारत और Mauritius मैत्री अमर रहे।            
Long live India-Mauritius friendship.
Thank You Thank You very much. 






