

Excellency, President of Kyrgyz Republic and the Chairman of today’s meeting,
Excellencies, colleagues and friends,
First of all, I would like to congratulate President Jeenbekov and Kyrgyz Republic for the efficient leadership of the SCO Summit. I would also like to thank him for the generous hospitality and the grand welcome. It is a pleasure for me to take part in this meeting of the SCO leaders. It has been two years since India became a full member of the SCO. We have made positive contributions to all activities of the SCO. We have continued extensive engagement to increase the role and credibility of SCO in the international arena.
Excellencies,
The history, civilization and culture of India, have been interconnected with the SCO region for thousands of years. Our shared area needs better connectivity in the modern era. Initiatives like International North South Transport Corridor, Chabahar Port, Ashgabat Agreement, clearly emphasize the focus of India on connectivity. We have also operated Air Freight Corridor between Kabul and Kandahar and New Delhi and Mumbai since 2017. Respect for sovereignty, regional integrity, good governance, transparency, practicality and reliability should be the basis of connectivity initiatives. The importance of people-to-people contact is no less than physical connectivity. Our e-tourist visa services are available for most of the SCO countries. I am happy to announce that soon the website of Indian Tourism Department will have a 24X7 Tourist Helpline with Russian interfaces in Russian language for the ease of the tourists of the SCO countries.
Excellencies,
A united, peaceful, safe and prosperous Afghanistan is an important factor for the stability and security in the SCO region. Our aim is to support the efforts of the government and the people of Afghanistan for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process. We are happy that the roadmap for further action of the SCO Afghanistan contact group is ready.
Excellencies,
Weshouldhave a vision to strengthen healthy co-operation in our region. The letters HEALTH can be a good template for our collaboration,
H for Healthcare CooperationE for Economic CooperationA for Alternate EnergyL for Literature and CultureT for Terrorism free societyH for Humanitarian CooperationH for Healthcare cooperation
We should emphasize SCO's 2019-2021 work plan on Healthcare. India will be happy to share its experience in the field of tele-medicine and medical tourism.
E for Economic Cooperation
Economic cooperation is the foundation of our people's future. One-sidedness and protectionism have not done any good to anyone. We need a rule based, transparent, non-discriminatory, open and inclusive multilateral trading system focused on the World Trade Organization. This will protect the interests of all the members, and especially the developing countries. India is committed to working rapidly on making an SCO-member friendly environment for economic activities. Today we are going to sign key agreements, which will strengthen cooperation in financial matters, digitization and ICT in the SCO.
A for Alternate Energy
India's commitment to dealing with climate change lies in our philosophy which considers the earth as our mother. Today, India is the sixth largest producer of renewable energy and the fifth largest solar power producer. International Solar Alliance is a joint initiative of India. Its aim is to mobilize technology and finance to reduce solar energy costs. We welcome the countries of the SCO in this initiative. And are ready to share our experience in developing alternative sources of energy. Today we have agreed on the concept paper of cooperation in the year 2019-21 for environmental protection under SCO.
L for Literature and Culture
Introducing our youth to each other's literature will deepen our relations. 10 great creations of Indian literature will be translated into the language of the SCO countries. Recently, with the cooperation of Uzbekistan, an SCO Film Festival was successfully organized in Tashkent. It included entertaining Bollywood and Uzbek films. Literature and culture provide a positive activity to our societies. Especially this can prevent the spread of radicalization among the youth in our society.
T for Terrorism free society
During my visit to Sri Lanka last Sunday, I went to the St. Anthony's church. There I remembered the shameful face of terrorism, which would just crop up anytime anywhere and take lives of innocent people daily. To combat this menace, all humanist forces should get out of their narrow realms and get together.Countries responsible for aiding, supporting and providing financial assistance to terrorists should be held accountable. SCO members should also effectively explore the capacity of SCO-RATS to eliminate terrorism.India calls for an international conference to combat the scourge of terrorism.
H for Humanitarian Cooperation
In the region India has been playing the role of First Responder in humanitarian cooperation and in disaster situations. We will be happy to share our experience and expertise with the SCO countries. We must pay special attention to the topic of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.
Excellencies,
[I welcome the Bishkek Declaration; a useful blueprint for collaboration] I once again thank our host His Excellency, President Jeenbekov. I would like to offer my wishes and congratulate President Vladimir Putin for heading the SCO next year and I assure full cooperation of India to the Russian Federation for the successful presidency of the SCO.
Thank you. 






