

Today, a great son of the country and of the Gujarat has left us. I am saddened and shocked by the passing away of our beloved Keshubhai Patel. The passing away of Keshubhai is like the departure of a father figure to me. His death is such a great loss to me; and this void can never be filled. In about 6 decades of his public life, he had a single goal: nationalism - welfare of the country.
Keshubhai was rich in terms of his personality. On the one hand, he was very soft and humble in his behaviour and on the other hand, his determination to take decisions was pretty strong. He had dedicated his life to the society and to serve every section of the society. His every task was for the development of Gujarat and his decision was to empower every Gujarati.
Our Keshubhai, who belonged to a very simple farmer family, understood the sufferings of the farmers and the poor. The welfare of the farmers was paramount for him. Keshubhai, as an MLA, as an MP, as a Minister or as the Chief Minister, had always given the topmost priority to the interests of farmers in his decisions and policies. The work he had done to make the lives of the villagers, the poor and the farmers better and the ideals of nationalism and public devotion that he carried throughout his life would continue to inspire several generations.
Keshubhai was familiar with every part of Gujarat. He had taken the Jana Sangh and the BJP to every corner of Gujarat, strengthening it in every region. I still remember how during the Emergency, Keshubhai had fought with all his efforts to save democracy.
Keshubhai had taught and always guided several ordinary workers like me a lot. I had remained in constant contact with him even after becoming the Prime Minister. Whenever I had the opportunity to visit Gujarat, I used to go and seek his blessings.
Just a few weeks ago, I had a very long conversation with him during the virtual meeting of Somnath Trust and he looked very happy. During this period of Corona, I also had several conversations with him over the phone; I used to keep asking about his health. Nearly 45 years of knowing him closely, be it the organization, struggle, or about the system; today various incidents and events are flashing through my memory.
Today every BJP worker is in grief just like me. My condolences are with Keshubhai's family and his well-wishers. At this moment of grief, I am in constant touch with his family.
I pray to God to give Keshubhai a place at his feet and may the departed soul rest in peace.
Om Shanti!!! 






