
India has entered the third decade of the 21st century with new energy and enthusiasm: PM Modi
This third decade of 21st century has started with a strong foundation of expectations and aspirations: PM Modi
Congress and its allies taking out rallies against those persecuted in Pakistan: PM

Honourable Shri Siddalingeshwara Swamy Ji, Chief Minister of Karnataka Shri BS Yediyurappa Ji, my cabinet colleagues Shri DV Sadanand Gowda ji, Shri Pralhad Joshi ji, Ministers of Karnataka Government, Respected Sant Samaj, devotees, ladies and gentlemen present here! Greetings to everyone! I am very happy to be in Siddhaganga Mutt, the land of Dr. Shivkumar Swamiji in Tumkuru. First of all, Happy New Year to all of you!
Wish you all the best for the year 2020!
I am fortunate that I am starting the year 2020 with this holy land of Tumkuru in the presence of you all. I wish that this sacred energy of the Siddhaganga Mutt makes all the citizens happy.



Friends,
I am lucky to have come here today after so many years. But at the same time a sense of desolation is also gripping me. We all feel the physical absence of Pujya Swami Sri Sri Shivakumar Ji. As per my experience, one's life used to get filled with energy just by visiting him. With his inspiring personality, this holy place has been giving direction to the society for decades. Especially, the perpetual flow to build an educated and egalitarian society originates from here. Swami ji has influenced huge number of people in his life which is quiet rare to see.
I am fortunate that I got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone of the museum to be built in the memory of Sri Sri Shivakumar Ji. This museum will not only inspire people, but will also give us direction at the societal and national level. I again pay my homage to Pujya Swamiji at his feet.
Friends, I have come here at a time when another great saint has left the land of Karnataka. The demise of Visvesh Tirtha Swami, the head of Pejavar Math is a loss to the Indian society. The passing away of such pillars of our spiritual and social life leaves a big void. We cannot stop this cycle, but we can definitely strengthen the path shown by these saints and dedicate ourselves to the service of humanity and the service of Mother India.
Friends, this is also important because India has entered the third decade of 21st century with new energy and enthusiasm. You might remember how the previous decade had started. But this third decade of the 21st century has started with a strong foundation of expectations and aspirations.
This aspiration is for the new India. This aspiration is of young dreams. This is the aspiration of the sisters and daughters of the country. This aspiration is for the poor, downtrodden, deprived, afflicted, backward classes and tribals of the country. What is this aspiration? This aspiration is about India being a prosperous, capable and benevolent world power. This aspiration is about watching India establishing its natural place in the world map.



Friends,
To fulfil this aspiration, the people of the country have given top priority to major changes as a nation. Now it has become the psyche of every Indian that the problems we have inherited have to be solved. The same message emanating from society also inspires and encourages our government. This is the reason why the country has made unprecedented efforts to bring meaningful changes in the life of ordinary Indian since 2014.
The past year has taken our efforts as a society, as a nation to greater heights. Today, the resolution of the country to be free from open defecation is being accomplished. The pledge of liberating the poor sisters of the country from smoke is being accomplished. The resolve to connect every farmer family in the country with direct benefit transfer and connecting the farm workers, labourers, and small traders with social security and pension system is being fulfilled.
The resolve to change the policy and practice of India against terrorism is also being fulfilled. Abrogating Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir to end terror and remove uncertainty from people's lives is also proving to be the beginning of a new era of development led by the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The country has taken steps to restore the honour of the minorities who have been driven out from the neighbouring countries because of different religious faith. And amidst all this, the path to a grand temple at the birthplace of Lord Rama has also been paved with complete peace and cooperation.Friends,
A few weeks ago, our Parliament, the largest institution of our democracy, has also made a historic decision of formulating the Citizenship Amendment Act. But the people of Congress, their allies and the ecosystem created by them have stood up against the Parliament of India. Their hatred towards us is now being shown to the Parliament of the country. These people have started a movement against the Parliament of India. These people are agitating against the Dalits, oppressed and the exploited people driven out from Pakistan.



Friends,
Pakistan was born on the basis of religion. The country was divided on the basis of religion. And at the time of partition, atrocities were committed against the people of other religions in Pakistan. Over a period of time, persecution on the basis of religion, whether they were Hindus, Sikhs, Christians or Jains had increased in Pakistan. Thousands of such people have had to leave their homes and come to India as refugees.
Pakistan persecuted Hindus, oppressed Sikhs, Jains and Christians; but the Congress and its allies did not speak against Pakistan. Today every countryman has a question that why are processions being taken out against those who have come here from Pakistan to save their lives and to save their daughters from the rapists, but are silent on the Pakistan which has committed such atrocities against them?
It is our duty to help the refugees from Pakistan and to stand with them. It is our duty to not leave Hindus, Dalits and the oppressed from Pakistan to their fate and to help them. It is our duty not to leave Sikhs from Pakistan to their fate and help them. It is our duty not to leave the Jains and Christians from Pakistan to their fate and help them.
Friends,
Today those who are agitating against the Parliament of India, I want to tell them that today there is a need to expose this act of Pakistan at international level. If you have to agitate, then raise your voice against the atrocities committed by Pakistan over the last 70 years.
If you want to raise slogans, then raise slogans against the way minorities are being tortured in Pakistan. If you want to take out a procession, then let it be in support of the Hindu, Dalit, oppressed and the exploited from Pakistan who have sought refuge here. If you want to stage protests, then let it be against Pakistan.



Friends,
Our government is working day and night to solve the decades-old challenges facing the country. It is our priority to make the lives of the people of the country easy. We are working on every such goal like - ensuring every poor in the country has a roof, every house has a gas connection, every house has piped water supply, every person has access to health facilities, every person has insurance cover, and every village is connected to broadband.
In 2014, when I had requested you to participate in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, you had extended your hands in support. Due to the cooperation of crores of companions like you, on the 150th birth anniversary of Gandhiji, India freed itself from open defecation.
Now that I have come to this sacred land today, I seek active support from Sant Samaj in 3 resolutions. First, we have to reinforce our archaic culture of giving importance to our duties and obligations, constantly awakening people about it. Second: protecting nature and the environment. And third: cooperation in public awareness for water conservation and water harvesting.
Friends,
India has always viewed saints, sages, gurus as a lighthouse for the right path. In New India too, the role of every leadership of the country related to Siddhaganga Math, spirituality and faith is important.
May the blessings of all of you, the saints, be with us! May we fulfil our resolution with your blessings. With this wish I conclude my speech.
Many thanks to all of you!
Bharat Mata ki Jai! 






