
PM Modi attends 50th Raising Day celebrations of CISF, salutes their valour
VIP culture sometimes creates hurdle in security architecture. Hence, it's important that the citizens cooperate with the security personnel: PM
PM Modi praises the CISF personnel for their contributions during national emergencies and disasters

All my CISF friends, who are engaged in the protection and security of the nation's property and honour!
All the brave family members present here today!
Ladies and gentlemen!
Heartiest congratulations to you all on the occasion of 50th Raising Day celebrations!
The completion of 50 years as an organization is a commendable feat. The CISF has been able to attain this height today due to the contribution made not only by the institution as a whole but also by all those great people who have headed it for that past 50 years and have worked relentlessly to take this institute to newer heights. They have worked for its human resource development too. Today we are celebrating 50 years or the Golden Jubilee. Congratulations to all those who have worked during the last 50 years to take this institution to such great heights. Some of them are present here today. They are extremely praiseworthy.



But brothers and sisters,
Your accomplishment becomes all the more important because the neighbouring country is hostile. Although they are incapable of fighting a direct war, but different conspiracies within India get an impetus from that land that gives rise to different forms of monstrous terrorism; amidst such situations, it becomes all the more challenging to protect the nation and its resources.
Just a short while ago, during the ongoing Parade, I could feel the zeal and determination that are necessary for building a glorious India. I congratulate the Parade Commander, and all the soldiers and officials who took part in the Parade for this grand presentation. Several friends have also received medals here today for their excellent service. I congratulate all of you for this. Besides, I also congratulate the winners of Police Medal and Jeevan Raksha Padak announced on the Republic Day this year.
Friends,
All of you associated with CISF, have played a crucial role in protecting the wealth of the nation. In order to safeguard the new and modern systems of India, in order to fulfil the country's hopes and aspirations, you are continuously moving forward.
We know that there are several security arrangements and we have inherited these things like its formation, mechanism and structure from the British era. There are a very few institutions that have taken birth after Independence according to the needs. These were born in free India. These took birth as a result of the thinking of free India. These institutions were born to fulfil the dreams of independent India. And CISF is one of the important units among those. Therefore, its birth, nourishment, development, expansion etc. happened gradually in the form of progressive unfolding. This occasion of Golden Jubilee is extremely a proud moment for everyone especially those who have headed this institution and have helped in its growth.



Such an institution is created not just by approval of a file by the government or the Cabinet. It was the efforts of thousands of people over the 50 years. They have developed such an institution keeping in mind the needs of the people. And it became a great entity of faith for the nation. Therefore, no congratulatory word is enough for you. Rajesh Ranjan ji was saying -'it is pleasantly surprising that the Prime Minister has come to our event'. But I would rather say that I would have missed a lot of things if I hadn't come here.
The constant penance of 50 years is not less. It's a great penance. You have to be alert for 365 days in a year. You have to keep your hands, legs and body ready to avert any calamity and save the nation. You all have to work in such difficult circumstances wherein just one or two incidents could end everything. This is not an easy task. I understand it completely because as the Prime Minister, even I receive a protective shield. But I am sorry to say that giving protection to a single person is not a difficult task compared to protecting an institution where about 30 lakh people come and go; or 8 lakh people come and go; where every face is new, every person has a different behaviour. So, protecting such a huge institution is lakhs of times more difficult than protecting a VIP. You are doing that! You are taking care of the institution.



It's not that you are just guarding the doors of an institute. But you are protecting India's path of development. You are instilling a new faith in India's journey for development. And as per my experience, the biggest hurdles that you face while serving is created by people like us - the politicians who consider themselves kings. They consider themselves to be VIPs. If your security personnel stops him and checks at Airports, his anger starts erupting. He starts insulting you. He might even say that he would see you! You seek forgiveness and try telling him that it was just your duty but he wouldn't budge. This is the VIP culture.
Let me narrate an incident. When I used to do party work, I had to travel throughout the country on a regular basis. Once there was a senior political leader with me. There are a few airports in our country wherein there is double security check due to high security - like Srinagar. It was once the same even in Guwahati. Now I am not aware of the situation there. The senior political leader with me was a well-known figure but the security personnel at the airport could not identify him. He started doing the routine checks according to his drill. As he was being checked, his temper started rising. He could not cool down even after sitting inside the aircraft. He was not talking to me. I tried to understand his psychology. The next time, when we had to visit another place, I asked him to come after me so that I checked-in first. What I did was, I went straight to the security check; your security guard was standing there. I went to him and raised both my hands in the air. Then I said – “brother, quickly finish the aarti ritual”. He said - "but I know you". I said - "so what if you know me, until you finish the ritual of using your metal detector, I won't go". Then I told the senior leader - "why do you take these things to heart during the security check?" Just take it as the aarti ritual. Feel proud of it. Let us cooperate with the security personnel.
Sometimes this VIP culture becomes a threat to security. I have the courage to say this from here because I too follow discipline but my discipline never comes in between. This is the duty of every citizen. You all are 1.5 lakh in number. Even though your strength increases to 15 lakhs, your job will be difficult unless the citizens are disciplined and cooperative. Therefore, on this Golden Jubilee year, I believe it is necessary to educate the citizens about the significance of this massive system. Hence, when I was inspecting the Parade, I was wondering what to talk to you about today. A thought entered my mind - to create a digital museum within the airports and metro stations. The details about the origin, development and expansion of CISF, the way they are serving the citizens and their expectations etc. can keep playing on screens. The 30 lakh people travelling by metro will watch it sometime or the other. About 7-8 lakh people coming to the airport will watch it sometime or the other. The people will realize that these people work for 24 hours a day. They should respect them and feel proud of them. Sensitization is necessary. The more the people are informed, the stronger will be the security forces. You have my complete support in pushing this task.



Compared to the other central forces, the numbers of daughters are greater in CISF. They are certainly giving a new dimension to the strength of the country and I therefore congratulate those daughters and their parents for choosing this field. I especially congratulate that mother who has taken the responsibility of securing the path of development of the country by encouraging the daughters to wear the uniform.
Friends,
The spirit of security and service with which you are moving ahead are extremely important. You all are responsible for safeguarding the entire modern infrastructure being built - ports, airports, expansion of the metro and big industries etc. This powerful force of more than 1.5 lakh security personnel is striving to provide a safe and secure environment to the Indians and people visiting India from around the world.
Friends,
Everyone feels completely safe in airports and metro. This has been possible because of your dedication, alertness and the public's faith in you. There is an ongoing expansion work for both airports and metro services. We are moving towards becoming the largest nation providing such services in both these fields.
Friends,
Several times, I have got the opportunity to travel by metro. I have seen how hard you all have to work. You have to constantly keep an eye on the people and their belongings for hours. The common man who travels by metro or flight can see your hard work too. But sometimes there are a few people who under-estimate your work. They feel that your work is limited to checking every person.
Friends,
It is essential for the nation to know that all the security personnel of CISF are not just associated with the job of checking but with every aspect of security and human sensitivity.
Friends,
Your contribution has also always been commendable during the natural disasters. Last year during the Kerala floods, your friends have saved thousands of lives by engaging day and night in rescue operations. Not only in the country but whenever the humanity had been threatened abroad, the CISF had always fulfilled its responsibility. Your contribution after the Nepal and Haiti earthquakes has been appreciated by the international community. Moreover, I am told that you are playing a significant role in uniting those children with their families who get separated from their families during journeys. Similarly, you are responsible for providing a safe environment to the daughters. Due to all these reasons you have garnered the faith of the entire nation.



Friends,
Today, on this important occasion as we have reached a significant milestone, we should also commemorate our colleagues who have given supreme sacrifice for their duty, for the protection of our country; who have been martyred for the protection of our country. You have given the supreme sacrifice for protecting the country, for preserving our invaluable heritage and wealth from those forces that promote terrorism and violence. Be it CISF, CRPF or the other armed forces, we are able to look forward to our dream of a New India due to your dedication and sacrifice. So far, more than 35 thousand Police friends, including the 4000 martyrs from the central police forces have laid down their lives. I offer my homage to all the martyrs.
But I would like to tell the people associated with the Defence forces that I emotionally feel that the people in Khaki uniforms; their hard work has not received so much respect and honour as it should have got in the country. It has not received enough recognition from the common people. So, for the first time since Independence, a Prime Minister had advocated from the ramparts of Red Fort to appropriately commemorate the martyrdom of more than 35 thousand policemen. I wanted to do that because the ordinary citizens are not aware of the reality. They judge the entire system based on the impression that is created by the behaviour of maybe a particular constable towards them.
It is important for the country to enhance the glory, prestige and honour of our security forces more and more. The establishment of the Police Memorial is a part of that. And I would like the school students to visit the Memorial and know those who have sacrificed their lives for us. We should keep on putting efforts in this direction. All your families too sacrifice for the security of the nation. It is difficult to put it in words. And I am glad that while I was travelling in an open Jeep, I got the opportunity to meet the three generations. Here, the three generations of your family are present. The elderly ascetic people too are present. Today some retired people are also present here on this occasion. I have had the opportunity to meet them too. I salute all the families because the sacrifices of these families give strength to those who are on duty.
Friends,
You keep standing on your front without wavering in any season - summer, winter or rains. There are several festivals like Holi, Diwali, Eid for the nation but for you, your duty becomes your festival. The families of the security personnel are also like the others. They have dreams and aspirations. They too have doubts and apprehensions. But when it comes to the security of the nation, they overcome every obstacle....... (Audio interrupted)....



.......There should be a full-day drill programme for different units. A protocol similar to 'blue-book' should be prepared so that we can prepare the people for it. We can move ahead on similar lines. We should do another thing. A separate Task Force can be created within CISF. There should be a real time study and monitoring of how the terrorists are looking for new modus operandi, how they are operating in new ways and the types of technologies they are using. The terrorists can misuse the gas pipelines and turn it into a catastrophe. Such things are happening around the world. We need to develop our systems by studying the equipment etc. used by the terrorists in the world. It would be better if we have such a dedicated Task Force for this study. And this study has to be done globally. Now there are no limits for terrorism. Terrorism is not confined to thousand kilometres or two thousand kilometres. They can be anywhere in any corner of the world. This is a challenge for humanity. Therefore, the challenge for your work is greater.
I would like to assure you that there will not be anything lacking on my behalf ever in fulfilling your needs and expectations. Once again, on the occasion of Golden Jubilee I congratulate you all for taking this institution to such great heights and for your contribution towards this institution. I also congratulate you all on the occasion of Golden Jubilee for arousing the belief in the people apart from ensuring the security of the nation. My best wishes to you all. And I believe that we will not leave any stone unturned in fulfilling the dreams of the country. With this spirit, my heartiest congratulations to my soldier brothers, their families and the great people who have carried this institution forward. With that I end my speech.
Say aloud with me everyone, whether in uniform or not! Everyone say -
Bharat Mata Ki Jai!
Bharat Mata ki Jai!
Bharat Mata ki Jai!
Thanks a lot! 






