
Every festival brings our society together: PM Modi
This Diwali, let us celebrate the accomplishments of our Nari Shakti. This can be our Lakshmi Pujan: PM

Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram!
Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram!
Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram!
My dear culture-lover brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers! Best wishes to all of you on the auspicious festival of Vijayadashami.
India is a land of festivals. There is hardly a day in 365 days when a festival is not celebrated in any corner of India.
Due to thousands of years of cultural tradition, our life has been associated with many heroic mythological stories and this heritage has given us a strong cultural history. Our country has also made festivals a way of constant rejuvenation of culture, education and collective social life.



The festivals connect us; the festivals also inspire us. Festivals fill us with enthusiasm and also give us the ability to have new dreams. Festivities are present in our blood, so festivals are the soul of India's social life. And because of this festive element, this thousand-year-old great tradition never had to change into a club culture. Festivals are the best medium of expressing one's emotions and this is the power of festivals.
During festivals, there has been a continuous effort to refine talent, to give talent a social dignity and to showcase talent. Be it art, be it musical instruments, song or dance; all forms of art are inextricably linked to our festivals. And this is the reason why due to thousands of years of cultural heritage, due to the presence of art in our lives through festivals, we have humans in true sense in our society and not the robots. Humanity, emotions, compassion and kindness are constantly being rejuvenated through festivals.
And so, in these nine days of Navratri, there will be no corner in India where the festival of Navratri will not be celebrated. The festival of Shakti Sadhana, the festival of Shakti worship reduces the shortcomings and insecurities of the inner self. This power is worshipped in a new form by transmitting new power from within.



In this country that worships mother, in this country that worships Shakti, it is the responsibility of all the people and all the citizens to safeguard the honor, pride and dignity of every mother and daughter in this land.
And so this time in the 'Mann ki Baat' episode I had said that the festivals in our country had been changing according to the era. We are a society that proudly accepts change. We are also the ones who accept challenges and also throw challenges and we are the people who can change themselves as per the need.
Changes should be brought when there is still time. When someone asks how come we continue to thrive; what is the reason? That is because when there is an evil in our society, then Great men are also born within our society to fight against those evils. When that person of our society goes out to fight against the evils prevailing in the society, initially there is a conflict, but later the same man becomes a venerable ascetic teacher and an inspiration to the society.
And so we are the people who are constantly accepting change. And as people are accepting change, I had said this time in the 'Mann ki Baat' episode that on the festival of Diwali we worship Mahalakshmi. We welcome Lakshmi with a great fervent. We have a dream wherein goddess Lakshmi stays with us in our house till the next Diwali or next year. We want Lakshmi to continue to be with us.



I had said in the 'Mann ki Baat' episode that in a country where Lakshmi is worshipped, and Lakshmi is also present in our houses, villages, our neighborhoods, there our daughters are considered as a form of Lakshmi. The daughters in our villages, neighborhood, in our wards, cities who have achieved something in their lives and can inspire others must be honoured on this Diwali through public events, and that should be our Lakshmi Pujan; that is the goal of our country. And so with the passage of time, we have also accepted changes in our festivals.
Today we are observing the sacred festival of Vijayadashami and this day also marks the birthday of our Air Force. The Air Force of our country is attaining new heights. On this occasion of the auspicious festival of Vijayadashami as we pray to Lord Hanuman, let us also give a thought to the Air Force in particular and all our brave soldiers of our Air Force and wish them all the best, and give our best wishes for their bright future.
Today is the festival of Vijayadashami, the festival of victory of divine power over demonical power, i.e. the festival of victory. It is equally important to defeat the demonic power within us every moment till there is time and only then can we realize Lord Rama. And so in order to feel Lord Rama and to be successful in our lives we must empower our intrinsic energy and inner power by destroying our inner weaknesses. Our first responsibility is to destroy the devil within.



Today, on the occasion of Vijayadashami and as we are celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, all the countrymen should resolve -
We will fulfil at least one resolution for the betterment of the country this year, so that the country will be served by some or the other person. If I save water, that too can be a resolution. I will never waste food - can also be a resolution. I will save electricity - can also be a resolution. I will never allow damage to public property of the country - can also be a resolution.
We get a few auspicious occasions that are coincidental like the festival of Vijayadashami, or the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the 550th Prakash Parv of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Using this coincidence, while seeking inspiration from that, we should also make a resolution in our life, and we will certainly emerge victorious.
What is the power of unified efforts? The power of collective efforts is manifested if we think of Lord Krishna. He had raised the Govardhan Mountain on one finger, but he was joined by all the Shepherds in lifting it with the collective strength of their sticks.
Look at the life of Lord Rama! He had to cross the sea and build a bridge. It also depicts collective power, by taking along the companions who he had met in the jungles. Lord Rama had built the bridge through collective efforts and had reached Lanka too. This potential lies in collectivity. These festivals enrich the power of concerted efforts. Let us also fulfil all our resolutions with that strength.
Let us make a personal effort to get rid of plastic. Let us add our villages, streets, neighborhoods to this campaign and run it as a movement - no first use plastic. Taking this kind of an idea forward, we should have our own resolution of getting rid of single use plastic.
For thousands of years, we have been celebrating this festival of victory of Lord Ram as 'Vijay Parv'. Efforts are being made to uphold the values by staging the Ramayana. This cultural tradition has been going on from generation to generation.
Today, I also congratulate Dwarka Ramlila Committee for their efforts to introduce our cultural heritage to the younger generation through this performance.
I wish you all the best on the occasion of Vijayadashami. And say aloud with me again-
 
Jai Shri Ram - Jai Shri Ram!
Jai Shri Ram - Jai Shri Ram!
Jai Shri Ram - Jai Shri Ram!
Thanks a lot.
  






