
Bangladesh continues to be one of the significant pillars of India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy: PM Modi
Matter of pride for me to release a digital exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi and Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. They continue to inspire our youths: PM

Your Excellency, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasinaji, Namaskar!Many congratulations on Victory day and best wishes for Poush Porban!Today the whole world is organizing virtual summits. But this medium is not new for us. We have been interacting via video conferencing for many years now.Several times we have also launched and inaugurated projects via video conferencing.Excellency,Following the Victory Day, our meeting today is of even more special significance.It is a matter of pride for us to celebrate the historic victory of Bangladesh over Anti-liberation forces as the Victory Day with you.Today, when Bangladesh is celebrating forty nine years of independence, I pay homage to the martyrs of both the countries who sacrificed their lives.On the occasion of Victory Day, yesterday I paid tributes at the National War Memorial in India and lighted a 'Golden Victory Torch'.These four 'Victory Torches' will tour all over India and will be taken to all the villages of our martyrs.Since 16 December, we are celebrating the 'Golden Victory Year', during which many events will be organized across India.Excellency,I congratulate you on behalf of all the Indians on the occasion of ‘Mujib Borsho’,Thank you for the invitation to visit Bangladesh next year. It would be a matter of pride for me to pay tribute to Bangabandhu with you.Excellency,Bangladesh is a major pillar of our 'Neighborhood First' policy. From the very first day, strengthening and development of relations with Bangladesh has been a special priority for me.It’s a fact that this year has been challenging due to the global pandemic.But it is a matter of gratification that India and Bangladesh had good cooperation in this difficult time.Whether it be medicines or medical equipment, or working with health professionals. We are also having good cooperation in the field of vaccine. We will also take special care of your needs in this regard.I thank you for the contribution of Bangladesh under SAARC framework.Other than health, this year our special partnership has been steadily advancing in other areas as well.We reduced hurdles in land border trade, expanded connectivity between the two countries, and added new means.All this reflects our intentions to further strengthen our relationship.Excellency,"Mujib Chirantar" - Bangabandhu's message is eternal. And it is in this spirit only that we honor his legacy too.The legacy of Bangabandhu is clearly reflected in your excellent leadership. Also, your personal commitment to our bilateral relations is very clear.It is a matter of pride for me that today I am getting an opportunity to release a stamp in honor of Bangabandhu, and inaugurate a digital exhibition on Bapu and Bangabandhu with you. I hope that the exhibition on Bapu and Bangabandhu will inspire our youth, wherein a special section have also been dedicated to Kasturba Gandhi ji and revered Bongmataji.Excellency,Now I would like to invite your opening remarks. 






