
Coronavirus pandemic taught a lesson and the country will use it to cut down on its imports: PM
If India is the fourth largest coal producer in the world, then why can't we become the largest exporter, asks PM Modi
With the coal auction process, states will earn extra revenue: PM Modi

Namaskar!
I welcome all the participants from across the nation and the world. The very conduct of such an event and your participation, during these challenging times in itself arouses a new hope and conveys an important message.
India will not only fight against Coronavirus, but will also win the battle and move forward. India is not going to sit and wail over the crisis. Howsoever big the crisis might be, India is determined to turn it into an opportunity. This Coronavirus Crisis has given India lessons in being Atmanirbhar, that is, Self-Reliant!
Atmanirbhar Bharat means India will reduce its dependence on imports. Atmanirbhar Bharat means India will save foreign exchange, worth lakhs of crores of rupees spent on imports. Atmanirbhar Bharat means India won’t need to import, for which, it will constantly develop resources domestically. Atmanirbhar means we become biggest exporters of the commodities that we now import.
 
Friends, to achieve this, we must take every sector, every product and every service into consideration and work holistically, to make India self-reliant in that particular area. Today’s event is a manifestation and a robust step in the direction of the same thinking.
Today, a major step is being taken to make India self-reliant in the energy sector. This event not only marks the implementation of reforms concerning just a single sector i.e. the Coal Mining Sector but also represents the commitment to realize 130 crore aspirations.
This marks the beginning of lakhs of employment opportunities for our youth.
Friends,
When the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan was announced last month in order to realize the resolve of a self-reliant India, many people thought that this was a usual government process.
But within a month of the announcement, every reform, be it in the sectors of agriculture, MSME or now the Coal & Mining Sector, have been implemented on ground.
This shows India’s seriousness and commitment to turn this crisis into an opportunity. Not only are we launching the auction of commercial coal mining today, but also freeing the coal sector from decades of lockdown.
What has been the effect of lockdown of the coal sector; you know it better than me.
Give it a thought. The nation with the fourth largest coal reserves in the world; the second largest producer in the world; that nation is not a coal exporter, but the second largest coal importer in the world!
The question is, when we are one of the largest producers in the world, why can’t we be the largest exporter?
This question always crops up in mine, yours and the minds of crores of Indians.
Friends, this has been our situation for decades. The country’s coal sector was entangled in the mesh of captive and non-captive. It was kept outside the competition; transparency was a major issue. Forget about fair process of auction, everybody is aware of the big scams involving coal mines allocation. For this reason, coal sector lacked investment and its efficiency was also questionable. Coal would be extracted in one state and sent to another state, hundreds of kilometers away and, the originating state would wait for coal. It was quite messy.
Friends, many steps were taken after 2014 to change this scenario. We implemented coal linkage which no one could think about. Such steps provided impetus to coal sector. Recently, we brought many reforms which were being thought about for decades. Now, India has taken a big decision to fully open coal and mining sectors for competition, capital, participation and technology. Care has been taken to ensure that the new players in private mining sector do not face problem of finance.
Friends, self-reliance is not possible without strong mining and minerals sector; because minerals and mining are important pillars of our economy.
After these reforms, now coal production and entire coal sector will become self—dependent. Now market has been opened for coal; so, any sector can buy as per their requirements.
Friends, these reforms will not only benefit coal sector but other sectors as well. When we increase coal production, then positive impact is also felt on production and processing in Steel, Aluminium, Fertilizers and Cement sectors with an increase in power generation. Fortunately, in India, reserves of coal, iron, bauxite and other minerals are located very close to each other. So, reforms brought in minerals sector have got strength from coal mining reforms.
Friends,
Beginning of auction today for commercial coal mining is a win-win situation for stakeholders. The Industries, you, your businesses, investments will get new resources and markets. State governments will get more revenue and a huge population of the country will get employment. It means, there will be a positive impact on every sector.
Friends,
While implementing coal reforms, it has been ensured that India’s commitment to protect environment doesn’t get weakened. Latest technology can be introduced to make gas from coal. And environment will be protected with steps like coal gasification. Coal gas will be used in transport and cooking while Urea and steel will promote manufacturing industries. We have set a target to gasify around 100-million-ton coal by the year 2030. I am told that four projects have been identified for this purpose and around 20 thousand crore rupees will be invested in this process.
Friends,
These coal sector reforms are a big medium to make eastern and central India, our tribal belt into pillars of development. Areas in our country having coal, minerals have not been able to reach desired level of progress and prosperity. This is also the part of the country having a big number of Aspirational Districts.People of these districts are aspiring for development, but have lagged behind in terms of development.
You can imagine that 16 Aspirational districts in the country have a huge stock of coal; but people of these areas have not got adequate benefit of this. Our friends from these places have to migrate to far-flung cities for employment.
The steps taken towards commercial mining will be very helpful to a big population of eastern and central India in providing them employment near their homes and reducing many such problems.
Auction of these coal blocks today will itself generate lakhs of jobs in this sector. Not only this, but infrastructure needed for coal extraction to transportation will also create employment opportunities. Recently, the Government has taken a decision to spend 50 thousand crore rupees on creating such an infrastructure.
Friends, reforms and investment in coal sector will play a big role in making lives of people, especially our poor and tribal brothers-sisters easy. Extra revenue generated through coal production will be used for public welfare schemes there. States will also continue to get help from the District Mineral Fund. A major chunk of this Fund is being utilized in development of essential facilities in the areas surrounding coal mines. We are following the objective of making people of mineral rich areas wealthy. The steps being taken today will greatly help this objective.
Friends, this auction is taking place at a time when the economic activity is fast returning to normal. Consumption and demand are fast attaining the pre – Covid-19 levels. There cannot be a better time for a new beginning.
Be it demand in power consumption or demand for petroleum products; the last week of May and first week of June have seen a rapid rise. Almost 200% jump has been witnessed in E way bills as compared to April. Toll collection in the month of June has already reached 70% of the February levels. Railway freight traffic has also witnessed a jump of 26% in the month of May as compared to April. Total digital retail transaction is witnessing a rise in both Volume as well as Value.
Friends, the rural economy has also started looking up. This year the crop area of Kharif is 13% higher than last year. Production and procurement of wheat has also increased this year. As compared to last year 11% more wheat has been procured till now. This means more money has gone into the pockets of farmers. All these indicators tell us that the Indian economy is ready to bounce back and march forward.
Friends, India has come out of bigger crises and will come out of this one too. If we Indians are millions of consumers, then we are also millions of producers. Success and growth of India is certain; we can become Atmanirbhar!
Remember, few weeks ago we used to import most of our demand for N-95 masks, Corona testing kits, PPE, and Ventilators. Now India is fulfilling its demand through ‘Make in India’. And very soon we will become an important exporter of medical products. You must keep up your faith and morale, we can do it. We can definitely become Atmanirbhar Bharat!
We can make Aatmanitbhar Bharat!
You all are major partners in the journey of Self Reliant India, started by 130 crore Indians. Let us make India move forward, make India Atmanirbhar!
Once again many congratulations to all of you on this significant beginning in the coal sector.
There are very few occasions in life when there is an opportunity to change the history by doing something. Today, the industrial world and the service sector of India have got the opportunity to change the history to heal the people. We must not let go of this opportunity. Come, let's take India forward and make India a self-reliant country.
Friends, today I got the opportunity to be with you. Although it is a matter of coal, we must dream of diamonds. Once again, my best wishes to all of you for this significant beginning in the coal sector! I especially want to congratulate my cabinet colleague Prahlad Joshi ji and his entire team for utilizing this lockdown period effectively and studying all the nuances of the entire department. I want to congratulate Prahlad ji, his Secretary and his team today for finding out the new ways with which they can help the nation and providing a great leadership.
You might be thinking that it is a small event. But I don’t think so. Prahlad ji, I see that you are laying a strong foundation for a self-reliant India today. And so heartiest congratulations to you and your team!
I want to once again assure my friends from industry present here today that I am with you. If you take two steps for the welfare of the country; I am willing to walk four steps with you. Come, let us not let go of this opportunity.
Once again, best wishes to all of you! Thank You!
 
 






